You can see that when the page first
announces the generating the fake name
library, that is a third party dependency
also likes to log to the console.
So that's fun.
But you can see that we render
the new grudge component,
we're rendering the individual grudges,
that all makes sense.
The page is mounting for the first time.
What happens if I just forgive one grudge?
Well, we end up
Rendering New Grudge again, and
all of the grudges in there as well,
right?
And that's not great.
So we will deal with that using
a pattern that we're gonna use
multiple times in multiple different ways.
So the rest of this workshop
is this reducer pattern.
And we'll see why we can
solve this initial issue,
we'll also solve the prop join pattern and
put this initial issue back.
And we'll talk about the tradeoffs there.
But the use reducer pattern allows us to
do some very complicated state management
in a much easier way than if we tried to
wire it all together using use state and
a bunch of like custom hooks.
So let's go ahead and
just very quickly do the kind of
first introduction to a reducer.
A lot of times, reducers scare people,
because I think I have this hobby horse,
which is a lot of times the first time
you come across reducer is a lot of times
when you're using React, Redux, rather.
And I think there's a problem the way we
teach Redux, which is we try to teach
Redux along with React, and the React
Redux library all at the same time.
So you're learning like four things
at once and you want to cry.
The actual concept of a reducer
is super easy, it is a function.
And it is a function
that takes two arguments.
It takes the current state of the world,
right,
which should just be a JavaScript object
or an array, hopefully an object.
Takes the current state of the world, and
it takes a second object,
it takes a second object here.
I mean, you can put the state in and
the state comes out, right?
The second object that goes
in is the action, right?
So here's the current state of the world.
Here's a thing that happened.
It takes these two pieces of data and
figures out what the new state
of the world is, all right?
And that is all it is,
this is a simple JavaScript function.
You could write a reducer
function yourself, we will.
And as long as it takes
the current state of the world and
an object that represents some thing that
happens in the world, in both go, and
only one thing comes out, which is the new
kind of resolved state of the world.
Now we tend to hook that up to our views,
right?
Okay, new state of the world, we're
gonna give that two components, right?
Here's what you need to render,
here are the grudges, so on and so forth.
Now, you notice that the grudges
have a forgiven check box.
Well, that's a thing that
happened in the world, right?
So when someone hits the forgiven
checkbox, we dispatch an action like, hey,
this grudge has been forgiven.
Those two things go into the reducer.
The state of the world,
the action that happened.
And new state of the world comes out
with our grudge forgiven, right.
And that's effectively what it is,
in this case.
Cool, so let's go ahead and
let's see if we can refactor this
application a little bit to use that.
So we'll do this in application.
Now, I told you, writing our reducer
function, pretty straightforward, right?
You're ready?
We'll say const reducer.
I'll write the world's simplest reducer
function, we'll say state, action.
There it is.
Now, this one is very much
like a teenager and so
that it takes the state of the world,
and anything that happens,
it ignores it and just keep on
doing what it was doing, right?
But this is the very beginning
of a reducer, right?
And so that is it.
It is simply a JavaScript function.
There is no black magic here.
Now, we can switch out this useState for
a useReducer.
Let me just add that,
switch this out real quick.
UseReducer, now useReducer
takes two arguments.
It takes a reducer, well that seems good,
right, and an initial state.
Now, that could be an array,
it could be an object.
I have that fake list of grudges
with the autogenerated names.
So I didn't accidentally,
imagine if I wrote the list myself and
it was somebody in the room.
That would be very,
those names are autogenerated.
So if you see your name, don't take
any offense unless you did that thing,
and then own it.
And instead of taking grudges,
it takes this function called dispatch.
We've got this ability to
dispatch actions, right?
We had to take out the setGrudges,
because right now,
we've removed that function, right?
The app blows up because
that's not a thing.
But what we'll wanna do
is dispatch actions and
say, all right,
when that actually happens,
effectively doing the same thing
that we're doing in each of these.
But what this allows us to do is
divorce the management of our state
with the actual components that
are rendering the state, all right.
As it stands right now, with the use
state, that is all happening inside of
the component that is also
showing the markup, right?
And it works, and it's not bad, but
it does kinda get a little murky
with those separations of concerns.
Here, we're gonna say, all right, we're
gonna give you the state of the world that
we're managing over in
this reducer over here.
We're gonna give you this dispatch
function to say stuff happened.
But all of the state management is going
to get pulled out of our application.
Now, there's a bunch of really
great things that happen here.
As we mentioned before,
this is just a JavaScript function, right?
As this grows and gets more complicated,
it becomes super easy to unit test, right?
You want to see what's going to happen?
You pass a JavaScript object which is the
state of the world that you're assuming,
you pass in an object which is
the thing that happened, and
you make sure what spits out at the end of
the function is what you thought, right.
You don't necessarily need to mount all
the components and do all that kind of
stuff, because a lot of times the more
complicated logic is happening in this,
even this isn't that bad.
But honestly,
I'd love to unit test that, right?
And I don't want to mount
an entire component to do that.
So by divorcing the state
management from the components,
things become easier to test.
Usually unit testing is not hard.
It's usually we write code that
is hard to unit test, right.
And it's usually, because that's
the big argument for test first, right?
So yeah, we're pulling it out and
we're being able to use it like that.